# Center of Excellence in Epigenetics | Shiv Nadar University

Source URL: https://snu.edu.in/centres/center-of-excellence-in-epigenetics/

Center of Excellence in Epigenetics | Shiv Nadar University
 
COEE Research Groups Publications Advisory Board Facilities News Gallery
 About Center of Excellence in Epigenetics 
Epigenetics is an emerging field of research that holds great potential to uncover the secrets of the blueprint of life. The vision of the Center of Excellence (CoE) in Epigenetics is to build upon an interdisciplinary synergy, by bringing together a group of established as well as young investigators with individual competences and expertise in diverse fields including Molecular Genetics, Biochemistry, Molecular Cell Biology, Developmental Biology, Neurobiology, Chromatin Biology, Computational and Systems Biology to formulate and test a set of novel and exciting hypotheses in the field of Epigenetics. In particular, the center will focus on epigenetic modifications underlying a variety of biologically important phenomena and their role in gene expression, cell division, regeneration, cancer, behavior, aging, and evolution. Our holistic and multi-pronged approach necessitates more close and effective collaborations that will be facilitated by trained manpower and by the creation of state-of-the-art facilities. While each group is engaged in contemporary and competitive areas, this Centre of Excellence will help bring these groups in active interaction. The Post-Doctoral Fellows program would bridge them together and enhance the scope of activity of each group. Additionally, we envisage generating a future generation of Indian scientists working in this important area of biology. At this Centre we wish to undertake large-scale epigenetics research to utilize and generate novel resources in order to attempt to gain a comprehensive understanding of epigenetic regulation in various model systems covering the evolutionary spectrum. Potential leads obtained during these studies will be sought to be followed up by the CoE for commercialization/technology transfer. The vision of this CoE also encompasses its functioning as a school for training a new generation of students and young investigators in the different aspects of Epigenetics and Regeneration Biology.